Link Tracking with StimulusReflex (#205)
rootstrap/blog: content/Link Tracking with StimulusReflex - Part III.md

# Link Tracking with StimulusReflex - Part III

> In this last part of this series, we'll use what we previously built to start tracking views. To do so, we will use [ActionCable](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_cable_overview.html) and [CableReady](https://github.com/hopsoft/cable_ready) to broadcast and make changes in our frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we are going to use what we previously built to start tracking views. To do so, we will use [ActionCable](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_cable_overview.html) and [CableReady](https://github.com/hopsoft/cable_ready) to broadcast and make changes in our frontend.
```

> In this last part of this series, we'll use what we built before to actually start tracking views. To do so, we'll use [ActionCable](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_cable_overview.html) and [CableReady](https://github.com/hopsoft/cable_ready) to broadcast and make changes in our frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this last part of this series, we'll use what we built previously to start tracking views. To do so, we will use [ActionCable](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_cable_overview.html) and [CableReady](https://github.com/hopsoft/cable_ready) to broadcast and make changes in our frontend.
```

![Header image](images/stimulus_reflex.jpeg)

> ### Redirecting users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Redirecting Users
```

> Let's start with the simple stuff, when a user follows one of our shortened links, they expect to be redirected to the original URL. To do this, we'll create a new controller and add the corresponding route:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start with the simple stuff, when a user follows one of our shortened links, they expect to be redirected to the original URL. To do this, we need to create a new controller and add the corresponding route:
```

```ruby
# app/controllers/redirections_controller.rb

class RedirectionsController < ApplicationController
  def index
  end
end
```

```ruby
# config/routes.rb

Rails.application.routes.draw do
  # ...
  get '/:path', to: 'redirections#index'
end
```

> Remember to add it at the bottom of the block so it does not override any other routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to add this at the bottom of the block so it does not override any other routes.
```

> With this, the implementation should be pretty straightforward:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the following, the implementation should be pretty straightforward:
```

```ruby
# app/controllers/redirections_controller.rb

class RedirectionsController < ApplicationController
  def index
    link = ShortenedLink.find_by!(shortened_path: params[:path])
    link.increment!(:views_count)

    redirect_to link.original_url
  end
end
```

> We want to use [`#increment!`](https://apidock.com/rails/ActiveRecord/Base/increment!) since it's atomic, and we are sure we don't want to run any validations, which would just slow us down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want to use [`#increment!`](https://apidock.com/rails/ActiveRecord/Base/increment!) as it's atomic, and we also don't want to run any validations as it would just slow us down.
```

However, what you really want to do is have a background job to increment
the attribute. That way you are absolutely certain that the redirect will

> happen in the least possible time, but that's outside the scope of this article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
happen in the least possible time. However, that is outside the scope of this article.
```

> With this in place, when people click on a shortened link, let's say `www.sholi.com/58dad962`. they'll

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once this in place, when people click on a shortened link, for example, `www.sholi.com/58dad962`., they'll
```

> get redirected to the original URL and we'll track one morer view for that link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
get redirected to the original URL, and we'll track an additional view for that link.
```

> ### Displaying link views

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Displaying Link Views
```

> At this point we could just make a static page and spit out our data, but what's the fun in that?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, we could just make a static page and spit out our data, but where's the fun in that?
```

> As a way to show how to pass data from the server to the view, as opposed to what we've been doing until now,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide you with an alternative method for passing data from the server to the view,
```

> we'll make page views update in real time using CableReady.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we will make page views update in real-time, by using CableReady.
```

> To do this, let's first generate a new channel by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, let's first generate a new channel by running the following:
```

```bash
bundle exec rails generate channel LinkViews
```

Then we'll change `app/channels/link_views_channel.rb` to just stream from `"link_views"`:

```ruby
class LinkViewsChannel < ApplicationCable::Channel
  def subscribed
    stream_from "link_views"
  end
end
```

> We must now tell our client channel  (the Javascript one) to perform CableReady operations, if necessary. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We must now tell our client channel (the Javascript one) to perform CableReady operations, if necessary. 
```

> We must now tell our client channel, the Javascript one, to perform CableReady operations, if there are any. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We must now tell our client channel  (the Javascript one) to perform CableReady operations, if necessary. 
```

> You can do that by editing the code inside:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can do this by editing the code inside the following:
```

`app/javascript/channels/link_views_channel.js` to match the following snippet:

```javascript
consumer.subscriptions.create('LinkViewsChannel', {
  received(data) {
    if (data.cableReady) {
      CableReady.perform(data.operations)
    }
  }
});
```

> And don't forget to actually import CableReady at the top of the file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FYI, don't forget to actually import CableReady at the top of the file.
```

```javascript
import CableReady from 'cable_ready'
```

> Let's change our Rails views now to actually show the link's views count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's now change our Rails views to actually show the link's views count.
```

Go to `app/views/shortened_links/index.html.erb` and add a new column on the table.

```erb
  <div class="col"><b>Original url</b></div>
  <div class="col"><b>Views</b></div>
  <div class="col"></div>
```

> And populate it with the right data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, populate it with the right data:
```

```erb
  <div class="col"><%= shortened_link.original_url %></div>
  <div class="col"><%= tag.span shortened_link.views_count, id: "link-#{shortened_link.id}-views-count" %></div>
  <div class="col">
```

> Notice how we wrapped the views count inside a span tag with an id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice how we wrapped the views count inside a span tag with an ID.
```

> We are doing this because we need to tell CableReady to perform operations later on and for that, we require a selector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are doing this because we need to tell CableReady to perform operations later on. To do this we must require a selector.
```

So, just copy the selector and change `app/controllers/redirections_controller.rb` to look like this:

```ruby
class RedirectionsController < ApplicationController
  include CableReady::Broadcaster

  def index
    link = ShortenedLink.find_by!(shortened_path: params[:path])
    link.increment!(:views_count)

    cable_ready["link_views"].text_content(
      selector: "#link-#{link.id}-views-count",
      text: link.views_count
    )
    cable_ready.broadcast

    redirect_to link.original_url
  end
end
```

What's going on here? Well it's pretty simple, we are including `CableReady::Broadcaster`

> to be able to broadcast operations. Then we add an operation on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to so we can broadcast operations. Then we add an operation on the
```

> `"link_views"` channel, you know the one we set to stream from before. The operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`"link_views"` channel (the one we set to stream from already). The operation
```

is a text replacement in the node with the id `link-#{link.id}-views-count`,

> that's what the `#` symbolizes, and the text is the new views count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that's what the `#` symbolizes, and the text is the new view count.
```

### Conclusion

> In the series, we learned how to setup StimulusReflex, build CRUD apps on a breeze, and track data in real-time. All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout this series, we learned how to setup StimulusReflex, build CRUD apps on a breeze, and also track data in real-time. All
```

of this with minimal JS and maximum productivity.

> ### What's next?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What's Next?
```

> This concludes this series on how to use StimulusReflex, but you can still play around with this project and add more functionality:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This concludes this series on how to use StimulusReflex, but you can still play around with this project and add more functionality with the following:
```

> - Track the browser from which the user clicked the link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Track the browser from the links users clicked
```

- Track the user's country

> - Add charts in real time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add charts in real-time
```

> - Much more...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- And much much more...
```

# Link Tracking with StimulusReflex - Part III

> In this last part of this series, we'll use what [we built before](TODO: Add link to second part) to actually start tracking views. To do so, we'll use [ActionCable](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_cable_overview.html) and [CableReady](https://github.com/hopsoft/cable_ready) to broadcast and make changes in our frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this last part of this series, we'll use what we built before to actually start tracking views. To do so, we'll use [ActionCable](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_cable_overview.html) and [CableReady](https://github.com/hopsoft/cable_ready) to broadcast and make changes in our frontend.
```

![Header image](images/stimulus_reflex.jpeg)

### Redirecting users

> Let's start with the simple stuff, when a user follows one of our shortened links, they expect to be redirected to the original URL. To do this, we'll create a new controller and add the corresponding route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start with the simple stuff, when a user follows one of our shortened links, they expect to be redirected to the original URL. To do this, we'll create a new controller and add the corresponding route:
```

```ruby
# app/controllers/redirections_controller.rb

class RedirectionsController < ApplicationController
  def index
  end
end
```

```ruby
# config/routes.rb

Rails.application.routes.draw do
  # ...
  get '/:path', to: 'redirections#index'
end
```

Remember to add it at the bottom of the block so it does not override any other routes.

With this, the implementation should be pretty straightforward:

```ruby
# app/controllers/redirections_controller.rb

class RedirectionsController < ApplicationController
  def index
    link = ShortenedLink.find_by!(shortened_path: params[:path])
    link.increment!(:views_count)

    redirect_to link.original_url
  end
end
```

> We want to use [`#increment!`](https://apidock.com/rails/ActiveRecord/Base/increment!) since it's atomic and we are sure we don't want to run any validations, which would just slow us down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want to use [`#increment!`](https://apidock.com/rails/ActiveRecord/Base/increment!) since it's atomic, and we are sure we don't want to run any validations, which would just slow us down.
```

However, what you really want to do is have a background job to increment
the attribute. That way you are absolutely certain that the redirect will
happen in the least possible time, but that's outside the scope of this article.

With this in place, when people click on a shortened link, let's say `www.sholi.com/58dad962`. they'll
get redirected to the original URL and we'll track one morer view for that link.

### Displaying link views

At this point we could just make a static page and spit out our data, but what's the fun in that?
As a way to show how to pass data from the server to the view, as opposed to what we've been doing until now,
we'll make page views update in real time using CableReady.

To do this, let's first generate a new channel by running:

```bash
bundle exec rails generate channel LinkViews
```

> Then we'll change `app/channels/link_views_channel.rb` to just stream from `"link_views"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then we'll change `app/channels/link_views_channel.rb` to just stream from `"link_views"`:
```

```ruby
class LinkViewsChannel < ApplicationCable::Channel
  def subscribed
    stream_from "link_views"
  end
end
```

> We must now tell our client channel, the Javascript one, to perform CableReady operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We must now tell our client channel, the Javascript one, to perform CableReady operations, if there are any. 
```

> if there are any. You can do that by editing the code inside

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can do that by editing the code inside:
```

`app/javascript/channels/link_views_channel.js` to match the following snippet:

```javascript
consumer.subscriptions.create('LinkViewsChannel', {
  received(data) {
    if (data.cableReady) {
      CableReady.perform(data.operations)
    }
  }
});
```

And don't forget to actually import CableReady at the top of the file

```javascript
import CableReady from 'cable_ready'
```

Let's change our Rails views now to actually show the link's views count.
Go to `app/views/shortened_links/index.html.erb` and add a new column on the table.

```erb
  <div class="col"><b>Original url</b></div>
  <div class="col"><b>Views</b></div>
  <div class="col"></div>
```

And populate it with the right data:

```erb
  <div class="col"><%= shortened_link.original_url %></div>
  <div class="col"><%= tag.span shortened_link.views_count, id: "link-#{shortened_link.id}-views-count" %></div>
  <div class="col">
```

Notice how we wrapped the views count inside a span tag with an id.

> We are doing this because we need to tell CableReady to perform operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are doing this because we need to tell CableReady to perform operations later on and for that, we require a selector.
```

> later on and for that we require a selector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> So just copy the selector and change `app/controllers/redirections_controller.rb` to look like this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, just copy the selector and change `app/controllers/redirections_controller.rb` to look like this:
```

```ruby
class RedirectionsController < ApplicationController
  include CableReady::Broadcaster

  def index
    link = ShortenedLink.find_by!(shortened_path: params[:path])
    link.increment!(:views_count)

    cable_ready["link_views"].text_content(
      selector: "#link-#{link.id}-views-count",
      text: link.views_count
    )
    cable_ready.broadcast

    redirect_to link.original_url
  end
end
```

What's going on here? Well it's pretty simple, we are including `CableReady::Broadcaster`
to be able to broadcast operations. Then we add an operation on the
`"link_views"` channel, you know the one we set to stream from before. The operation
is a text replacement in the node with the id `link-#{link.id}-views-count`,
that's what the `#` symbolizes, and the text is the new views count.

### Conclusion

> In the series we learned how to setup StimulusReflex, build CRUD apps on a breeze and track data in real time. All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the series, we learned how to setup StimulusReflex, build CRUD apps on a breeze, and track data in real-time. All
```

of this with minimal JS and maximum productivity.

### What's next?

This concludes this series on how to use StimulusReflex, but you can still play around with this project and add more functionality:

- Track the browser from which the user clicked the link
- Track the user's country
- Add charts in real time
- Much more...

> Or just start a project of your own and give StimulusReflex a try!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or, just start a project of your own and give StimulusReflex a try!
```
